.\"	Title : mintupdate-cli
.\"	Author : gm10
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MINTUPDATE-CLI 8 "9 December 2019" MINTUPDATE
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mintupdate-cli \- Update Manager command line interface.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmintupdate-cli\fR [options] {list | upgrade}

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmintupdate-cli\fR is the command line interface to mintupdate.
.PP
Unless the \fB-h\fR, or \fB--help\fR option is given, one of the commands below must be present:
.PP
\fBlist\fR
.RS 4
List available updates.
.RE
.PP
\fBupgrade\fR
.RS 4
Apply available updates.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
mintupdate-cli accepts the following options:
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a help message and exit.
.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fB--only-kernel\fR
Only apply kernel updates.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--only-security\fR
Only apply security updates.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--mainline\fR
Enable mainline kernel upgrades. If the current kernel is a so-called mainline
kernel, this allows it to be upgraded. If the installed series has reached
end-of-life, then the highest available released mainline kernel series is
installed.
.TP
\fB-i IGNORE\fR, \fB--ignore IGNORE\fR
List of updates to ignore (comma-separated list of source package names).

You can also ignore updates by adding them to /etc/mintupdate.blacklist,
one source package per line.

To ignore a specific version, use the format package=version.
.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fB--refresh-cache\fR
Refresh the APT cache first.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--dry-run\fR
Simulation mode, don't upgrade anything.
.TP
\fB-y\fR, \fB--yes\fR
Automatically answer yes to all questions and always install new configuration
files (unless you also use the --keep-configuration option).
.TP
\fB--quiet\fR
Produce only minimal output. Implies --yes.
.TP
\fB--install-recommends\fR
Install recommended packages regardless of system defaults (use with caution).

System defaults on Linux Mint are not to install recommended packages.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--create-snapshot\fR
Create system snapshot with Timeshift before installing updates. This requires
Timeshift to be installed and set up correctly to work. Updates won't be
installed if the snapshot cannot be created.
.TP
\fB--keep-configuration\fR
Always keep local changes in configuration files (use with caution).
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the current version.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmintupdate(8)\fR, \fBtimeshift-gtk\fR
