.\"	Title : mintupdate
.\"	Author : gm10
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MINTUPDATE 8 "1 December 2019" MINTUPDATE
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mintupdate \- Update and Kernel Manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmintupdate\fR [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmintupdate\fR is a graphical solution to managing software updates available
via the apt package management system. It is designed to run at session
startup.
.PP
In \fBmintupdate\fR's preferences you can configure the update check schedule,
enable automatic system snapshots before updates (requires timeshift to be
installed and configured) as well as automated maintenance and update
functionality.
.PP
\fBmintupdate\fR ensures you are using the recommended kernel for your system,
and via the Tools menu you can access the advanced Kernel Manager
(\fBkernel-manager(8)\fR) allowing installation of non-default kernels or
removal of existing ones. See the Expert options in preferences to make
additional kernel choices available.
.PP
\fBmintupdate\fR also facilitates installation of Linux Mint point releases as
they become available.
.PP
See \fBmintupdate-cli(8)\fR for a command line version of mintupdate.
.PP

.SH COMMANDS
\fBmintupdate\fR is controlled and configured via the graphical user interface
but also exposes a command line interface for accessing some functionality.
All commands except `show` and `exit` will be ignored if the application is
not running, instead it will be started as if no command had been supplied.
.TP
\fBshow\fR
Show the application window. This is the default if no command is supplied.
.TP
\fBhide\fR
Hide the application window.
.TP
\fBrefresh\fR
Refresh the list of available updates.
.TP
\fBshow-kernels\fR
Show the Kernel Manager window.
.TP
\fBshow-history\fR
Show the History of Updates window.
.TP
\fBshow-preferences\fR
Show the Preferences window.
.TP
\fBshow-log\fR
Show the Log View window.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR
Restart the application.
.TP
\fBexit\fR
Exit the application.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show a short usage summary.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Display the current version.
.PP

.SH NOTES
\fBmintupdate\fR's Edit menu entries give acccess to \fBtimeshift-gtk(8)\fR
(\fISystem Snapshots\fR), \fBsoftware-sources(8)\fR (\fISoftware Sources\fR),
and \fBmint-release-upgrade(8)\fR (\fIUpgrade to {point release}\fR).

\fBmintupdate\fR also integrates optional database updates to \fBmintinstall(8)\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmintupdate-cli(8)\fR, \fBkernel-manager(8)\fR, \fBmint-sources(1)\fR, \fBtimeshift-gtk\fR, \fBmintinstall(8)\fR
